# IPL-DATA-ANALYSIS
### 1.The Tournament has shown a slight favourism towards the winning Teams. What I mean to say is Stadiums like Chinnaswamy, Eden Gardens, Wankhede etc have hosted huge number of games. Now obviously this factor adds an edge to the home teams for these stadiums- and indeed they have been the most succesful teams in the history of the Tournament- Chennia Super Kings, Kolkata Knight Riders, Mumbai Indians etc. Although this is not the prime factor, yet has a weightage.
### 2.Multiple players who could have been a good potential to the world of Cricket- have got very less appearence opportunities, or have been dropped due to a few inconsistent performances. We often come across news of players in the Indian Premier League, who have left the game of cricket and resorted to means to support their families. 
### 3.Since Each Team gets an opportunity to Play atleast 7 matches in their Home Ground, most teams have also won the highest number of their wins in their Home Grounds. But Teams like Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings have performed really well at away grounds too. 
### 4.This constitutes one of the major reasons, as to why these teams have been the most succesful in the IPL History.
### 5.The Batting and Bowling Averages of most of teams are better in the First innings-as compared to the second innings. Just would like to add a few points from the data standpoint:
### 6.The datasource was very stable and clean. Data cleaning activities were not very difficult and overall it helped a lot in the analysis. The data was very rich- Ball by Ball data has been provided across 12 seasons- which is actually a very difficult task to manage. Thanks a lot for the data!
